# climatechange-Amazon
The Amazon rainforest, also called Amazon jungle or Amazonia, is a moist broadleaf tropical rainforest in the Amazon biome that covers most of the Amazon basin of South America. This region includes territory belonging to nine nations and 3,344 formally acknowledged indigenous territories. The majority of the forest, 60%, is in Brazil, followed by Peru with 13%, Colombia with 10%, and with minor amounts in Bolivia, Ecuador, French Guiana, Guyana, Suriname, and Venezuela.

Environmentalists are concerned about loss of biodiversity that will result from destruction of the forest, and also about the release of the carbon contained within the vegetation, which could accelerate global warming. Amazonian evergreen forests account for about 10% of the world's terrestrial primary productivity and 10% of the carbon stores in ecosystems – of the order of 1.1 × 1011 metric tonnes of carbon. Amazonian forests are estimated to have accumulated 0.62 ± 0.37 tons of carbon per hectare per year between 1975 and 1996. In 2021 it was reported that the Amazon for the first time emitted more greenhouse gases than it absorbed.

The Amazon is at the heart of global climate concerns. Not only does the destruction of rainforests add to carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, it creates a 'positive feedback loop' - where increased deforestation causes a rise in temperatures which in turn can bring about a drying of tropical forests and increase the risk of forest fires. Therefore monitoring the climatic changes in the Amazonia is crucial.

**This project aims to analyse effect of climate change on the Amazon rainforest to identify if parts of the region have turned into a net carbon source using climatic factors such as temperature, precipitation, normalised difference vegetation index (NDVI), El Niño Southern Oscillation (ENSO), and carbon dioxide flux variation.**
